Documentation for entitlements (#152)
onflow/docs: docs/cadence/language/access-control.md

  This does not allow the declaration to be publicly writable though.

  An element is made publicly accessible / by any code
  by using the `access(all)` keyword.

- Entitled access means the declaration is only accessible/visible
  to owned values, or to references that are authorized to the required entitlements.

  For example, an `access(E, F)` field can only be accessed by an owned value, 
  or a reference to a value that is authorized to the `E` and `F` entitlements. 

>   An element is made accessible by code in the same containing type

Author: Hmm. I agree that we could make this presentation simpler, but I don't think we can avoid talking about entitlements here. They aren't really an advanced concept; they are pretty fundamental to how access control is going to work in Cadence. It's going to be essentially impossible to write a contract post-Stable Cadence without understanding how entitlements work at least at a basic level, so I think we need to have this section present an introduction to the concept at least.

Entitlements can be declared in like other types in a program using special syntax:

```cadence
entitlement E
entitlement F
```

creates two entitlements called `E` and `F`. 
If using entitlements defined in another contract, the same qualified name syntax as regular is used:

```cadence
contract C {
  entitlement E
}
```

Outside of `C`, `E` is used with `C.E` syntax. 

Entitlements can be used in access modifiers on struct and resource members to specify which references to those composites
are allowed to access those members. 
An access modifier can include more than one entitlement, joined with either an `|`, to indicate disjunction or "or", 
or a `,`, to indicate conjunction or "and". So, for example:

```cadenc
access(all) resource SomeResource {
  
  // requires an `E` entitlement to read this field
  access(E) let a: Int

  // requires either an `E` or an `F` entitlement to read this field
  access(E | F) let b: Int

   // requires both an `E` and an `F` entitlement to read this field
  access(E, F) let b: Int

  // intializers omitted for brevity
  // ...
}
```

> Given some values with the annotated types:

Author: This would belong in the `references` section of the docs, but I'll add some detail there an link to it here.

let entitledRef = &r as auth(OuterEntitlement) &OuterResource
let entitledSubRef = entitledRef.getRef() // `OuterEntitlement` is defined to map to `SubEntitlement`, so this access yields a value of type `auth(SubEntitlement) &SubResource`
Entitlement

// `r` is an owned value, and is thus considered "fully-entitled" to `OuterResource`,
// so this access yields a value authorized to the entire image of `Map`, in this case `SubEntitlement`
let alsoEntitledSubRef = r.getRef() 
```

<!---- TODO: Update once mappings can be used on regular composite fields ---->
Entitlement mappings may be used either in accessor functions (as in the example above), or in fields whose types are references. Note that this latter
usage will necessarily make the type of the composite non-storage, since it will have a reference field. 

<!--- TODO: once the Account type refactor is complete and the documentation updated, let's link here to the Account type page as an example of more complex entitlement mappings --->
Entitlement mappings need not be 1:1; it is valid to define a mapping where multiple inputs map to the same output, or where one input maps to multiple outputs. 

> Entitlement mappigns preserve the "kind" of the set they are mapping; i.e. mapping an "and" set produces an "and" set, and mapping an "or" set produces an "or" set. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entitlement mappings preserve the "kind" of the set they are mapping; i.e. mapping an "and" set produces an "and" set, and mapping an "or" set produces an "or" set. 
```

    access(all) fun foo() { ... }
    access(SubEntitlement) fun bar() { ... }
}

resource OuterResource {
    access(self) let childResource: @SubResource
    // by referering to `Map` here, we declare that the entitlements we receive when accessing the `getRef` function on this resource
    // will depend on the entitlements we possess to the resource during the access. 
    access(Map) fun getRef(): auth(Map) &SubResource {
        return &self.childResource as auth(Map) &SubResource
    }

    init(r: @SubResource) {
        self.childResource = r
    }
}

// given some value `r` of type `@OuterResource`
let pubRef = &r as &OuterResource
let pubSubRef = pubRef.getRef() // has type `&SubResource`

let entitledRef = &r as auth(OuterEntitlement) &OuterResource
let entitledSubRef = entitledRef.getRef() // `OuterEntitlement` is defined to map to `SubEntitlement`, so this access yields a value of type `auth(SubEntitlement) &SubResource`
Entitlement

// `r` is an owned value, and is thus considered "fully-entitled" to `OuterResource`,
// so this access yields a value authorized to the entire image of `Map`, in this case `SubEntitlement`
let alsoEntitledSubRef = r.getRef() 
```

> <!---- TODO: Update once mappings can be used on regular composite fields ---->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{/* TODO: Update once mappings can be used on regular composite fields */}

```

Entitlement mappings may be used either in accessor functions (as in the example above), or in fields whose types are references. Note that this latter
usage will necessarily make the type of the composite non-storage, since it will have a reference field. 

> <!--- TODO: once the Account type refactor is complete and the documentation updated, let's link here to the Account type page as an example of more complex entitlement mappings --->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{/* TODO: once the Account type refactor is complete and the documentation updated, let's link here to the Account type page as an example of more complex entitlement mappings */}
```

// Valid: can call non-mutating methods on a public field in outer scope
some.f.contains(0)
```

> ## Entitlements

Author: IMO further extensions to entitlements can be separated out into their own section; so the mutability-changes, for example, can go into a separate section about mutability that references back to this section. I think however that since developers need to understand the most basic application of entitlements in order to write any kind of Cadence code with access control, we should have the introductory material on this page.

  // intializers omitted for brevity
  // ...
}
```

Given some values with the annotated types (details on how to create entitled references can be found [here](./references.mdx)):

```cadence

let r: @SomeResource = // ...
let refE: auth(E) &SomeResource = // ...
let refF: auth(F) &SomeResource = // ...
let refEF: auth(E, F) &SomeResource = // ...

// valid, because `r` is owned and thus is "fully entitled"
r.a
// valid, because `r` is owned and thus is "fully entitled"
r.b
// valid, because `r` is owned and thus is "fully entitled"
r.c

// valid, because `refE` has an `E` entitlement as required
refE.a
// valid, because `refE` has one of the two required entitlements
refE.b
// invalid, because `refE` only has one of the two required entitlements
refE.c

// invalid, because `refF` has an `E` entitlement, not an `F`
refF.a
// valid, because `refF` has one of the two required entitlements
refF.b
// invalid, because `refF` only has one of the two required entitlements
refF.c

// valid, because `refEF` has an `E` entitlement
refEF.a
// valid, because `refEF` has both of the two required entitlements
refEF.b
// valid, because `refEF` has both of the two required entitlements
refEF.c

> ```

Author: Yeah there is an example with an owned value at the start of this code snippet.

> ```

Reviewer 3: yeah, I was thinking more like a warning/info callout, in addition to the example, to get more attention: "Hey did you notice that owned values have no impact from entitlements?"

    access(all) fun foo() { ... }
    access(SubEntitlement) fun bar() { ... }
}

resource OuterResource {
    access(self) let childResource: @SubResource
    // by referering to `Map` here, we declare that the entitlements we receive when accessing the `getRef` function on this resource
    // will depend on the entitlements we possess to the resource during the access. 
    access(Map) fun getRef(): auth(Map) &SubResource {
        return &self.childResource as auth(Map) &SubResource
    }

    init(r: @SubResource) {
        self.childResource = r
    }
}

// given some value `r` of type `@OuterResource`
let pubRef = &r as &OuterResource
let pubSubRef = pubRef.getRef() // has type `&SubResource`

let entitledRef = &r as auth(OuterEntitlement) &OuterResource
let entitledSubRef = entitledRef.getRef() // `OuterEntitlement` is defined to map to `SubEntitlement`, so this access yields a value of type `auth(SubEntitlement) &SubResource`
Entitlement

// `r` is an owned value, and is thus considered "fully-entitled" to `OuterResource`,
// so this access yields a value authorized to the entire image of `Map`, in this case `SubEntitlement`
let alsoEntitledSubRef = r.getRef() 
```

> {/* TODO: Update once mappings can be used on regular composite fields */}

Reviewer 4: This wasn't addressed/fixed

// Valid: can call non-mutating methods on a public field in outer scope
some.f.contains(0)
```

## Entitlements

> Entitlements are a unique feature of Cadence that provide granular access control to each member of a struct or resource. 

Reviewer 4: Generalize to composite, as the feature also works for e.g. contracts

```suggestion
Entitlements provide granular access control to each member of a composite. 
```

Entitlements can be declared using the following syntax:

```cadence
entitlement E
entitlement F
```

> creates two entitlements called `E` and `F`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
creates two entitlements called `E` and `F`. 

```

    access(Map) fun getRef(): auth(Map) &SubResource {
        return &self.childResource as auth(Map) &SubResource
    }

    init(r: @SubResource) {
        self.childResource = r
    }
}

// given some value `r` of type `@OuterResource`
let pubRef = &r as &OuterResource
let pubSubRef = pubRef.getRef() // has type `&SubResource`

let entitledRef = &r as auth(OuterEntitlement) &OuterResource
let entitledSubRef = entitledRef.getRef() // `OuterEntitlement` is defined to map to `SubEntitlement`, so this access yields a value of type `auth(SubEntitlement) &SubResource`
Entitlement

// `r` is an owned value, and is thus considered "fully-entitled" to `OuterResource`,
// so this access yields a value authorized to the entire image of `Map`, in this case `SubEntitlement`
let alsoEntitledSubRef = r.getRef() 
```

{/* TODO: Update once mappings can be used on regular composite fields */}

Entitlement mappings may be used either in accessor functions (as in the example above), or in fields whose types are references. Note that this latter
usage will necessarily make the type of the composite non-storage, since it will have a reference field. 

> {/* TODO: once the Account type refactor is complete and the documentation updated, let's link here to the Account type page as an example of more complex entitlement mappings */}

Reviewer 4: Same here: turn into a Markdown comment, i.e. `<!-- ... -->`

Author: When I tried doing this, it made the CI complain. I'm pretty sure these are comments as-is, since they don't show up here: https://developers.flow.com/next/cadence/language/access-control

Entitlement mappings need not be 1:1; it is valid to define a mapping where multiple inputs map to the same output, or where one input maps to multiple outputs. 

Entitlement mappings preserve the "kind" of the set they are mapping; i.e. mapping an "and" set produces an "and" set, and mapping an "or" set produces an "or" set. 
Because "and" and "or" separators cannot be combined in the same set, attempting to map "or"-separated sets through certain complex mappings may result in a type error. For example:

> ```

Reviewer 4: Add `cadence` language to code fence
